# .env File

### Editing the .env File

You can edit the `.env` file by opening your Manager Settings. Then pressing the `Edit .env File` button

### .env File Reference

* `POSTGRES_PASSWORD`: the password to the postgress database.
* `POSTGRES_USER`: the username to the postgress database.
* `DB_HOST`: The database host. _Most likely `localhost`_
* `DB_PORT`: The port to the database.
* `POSTGRES_DB`: The database name.
* `DATABASE_URL`: Do not change unless you know what you're doing!
* `JWT_SECRET`: This is a random value to keep the CAD secured.
* `CORS_ORIGIN_URL`: The URL/IP to where the CAD is hosted at, e.g., `https://cad.mysite.com` or `http://99.99.00.190:3000`.
* `NEXT_PUBLIC_PROD_ORIGIN`: The URL/IP to where the API is hosted at, e.g., `https://cad-api.mysite.com/v1` or `http://99.99.00.190:8000/v1`.
* `PORT_API`: The port where you want to run the API at. _(Default 8080)_
* `PORT_CLIENT`: The port where you want to run the client at. _(Default: 3000)_
* `ENCRYPTION_TOKEN`: Used to generate encrypted values. Must be 32 characters long

### Additional .env configuration.

Additional configuration for the `.env` file for authentication and role management.

* `DISCORD_BOT_TOKEN`: Discord Bot Token (Used for Discord Role Integration)
* `DISCORD_SERVER_ID`: The ID of the Guild that your bot is in
* `DISCORD_CLIENT_ID`: The ID of your Bot (Located in the Discord Developer Portal)
* `DISCORD_CLIENT_SECRET`: The secret client token of the bot (Located in Discord Developer Portal)
* `STEAM_API_KEY`: Used for steam authentication.

{% hint style="warning" %}
### Manager vs CLI

**ONLY** the manager will automatically compile the `.env` file changes.\
\
If you are using your command line to manage your SnailyCAD installation, and **not** using the manager. You must run the following command(s) to compile changes of the `.env` file:
{% endhint %}

```
node scripts/copy-env.mjs --client --api && yarn workspace @snailycad/client build
```

